You did real good
out there today.
Huh?,
You're a quick learner
and everything you do
is really precise.
You're probably well-suited
to this kind of job.
Wait, are you actually
giving me a compliment...?
Try not to let it
go to your head.
You do the same thing every day,
so it's only natural
that you get better.
Fair enough.
[Tomoya]: All the guys who
sat next to me in school
have probably moved away now.
They're probably going
to college in other towns.
But... even if I'm the
only one who stayed here...
that doesn't mean I'm alone.
There are other people
working and sweating
and getting covered
in grime just like me.
This is the new place I chose
for myself. The place I earned.
All right!
Now it's time for a quiz!
ÚThank you, ladies. Thank you.
Yay!
@Now which of the followingúis
Akio's super hot event
to kick off the
summer with a bang?!
One: Barbeque at the beach!
Two: Beauty rest at the beach!
Three: Barbara Fujioka
at the beach!
They sound so similar,
I don't know which to pick!
@But that last
oneúdoesn't fit at all.
Sure it does; It starts
with a "B", doesn't it?
Who wouldn't want to play
with Barbara Fujioka?!
@Is that evenúa real person?
You can have Barbara, I just
want to play with Nagisa!
I've been so lonely without
her; I'll do anything!
I-I'm sorry, Dad!
Don't mind him, he's just having
a tough time letting Nagisa go
after all these years.
It's only natural for you
to spend time together.
I see...
So I guess I gotta share, huh?
[Tomoya]: Good to see you
parents are as energetic as
ever.
What's wrong?
Something on your mind?
I uh... think we need to talk.
What is it? You need
a swimsuit for the beach?
Mm-mmm. No, it's not that.
Ah, I mean... now that
you mention it,
I could use a new one...
All right. I get off
work early tomorrow,
so we can go shop
for one together.
Oh, uh... really? Are you sure?
[Tomoya]: You probably only have
your school swimsuit, right?
[Nagisa]: Yeah. But it's
not bad. I don't mind.
[Tomoya]: I mind. I want my
girlfriend to look cute.
Besides, we don't get to
go to the beach very often.
I bet all the other
guys'll be jealous
when they see you with me!
[Nagisa]: No way! I don't look
that good in a swimsuit...!
We'll see about that, won't we?
When I get off work,
we'll shop til we drop!
Okay!
Now that's settled...
No, that's not it.
Not about swimsuits
after all? Oh, then...
Tomoya...
I brought this up before,
but have you seen your
father since you moved
to your new apartment?
Well, did you at
least give him a call
to let him know where
you're living now?
Not yet...
[Tomoya]: You understand the
situation, don't you?
We're pretty much completely
estranged from each other.
It's not something
that's gonna change.
But, you-
I work almost every day now!
With my job, I'm totally worn
out by the end of the day.
When I DO get a day off,
I want to spend it with you.
I don't want to do
anything unpleasant.
I understand if you
can't do it right away...
But one of these days...
let's go talk to
your father... together.
All right. Someday.
[Nagisa]:
Yeah. Someday for sure.
[Boss]: I know this is out of
the blue, but an old colleague
of mine
is the manager of
a contracting company.
Anyway, he's looking
for a someone young
to supervise construction
sites for him.
Uh-huh...?
Of course, it'd be an
apprenticeship at first.
But it's a salaried
position and everything.
Umm... The pay is... Ummm...
Should be something like this.
Wow, that's pretty nice.
Yeah? Well, I'm glad
you think so,
since I was considering
recommending you for the job.
Huh?
Are you interested
in trying it out?
W-Wait a sec, I'm confused;
Does this mean I'm fired?
Don't get the wrong idea.
The boss isn't looking
to get rid of you,
he's trying to do you a favor.
You don't have to
decide right away.
But, it's a good offer...
I'd like for you to
seriously consider it.
Yeah...
[Yoshino]:
I don't see the downside.
I know, but I put
a lot into this job;
I thought I'd always
work for this company.
Besides, I think you're
better suited for a
supervising position
than someone like me.
[Yoshino]: I'm not good
at dealing with people.
I'm a decent workman, but
I'd make an awful supervisor.
Besides, you're younger
and you have more potential.
[Tomoya sighs]
But this is so sudden.
[Yoshino]: Sudden or not, the
pay is more than you'll ever
make here.
And even if you like it here,
someday you'll have a family
to support... Right?
If there's someone
you really care about,
you'd be surprised how much you
can overcome for their sake.
Is that why you're here?
I mean, did you
stick with this job
because of someone
you care about?
Ah, sorry, I guess that was
kinda personal. Forget it.
Here, let me tell you
a little story.
Huh?,
It's a story of a
rebel from this town
who used to play rock and roll.
[Yoshino]: Ever since he was a
kid, he did whatever he
wanted...
whenever he wanted.
There was no one around to scold
him or teach him any better,
so he was always
getting into trouble.
When he was in high school, a
lot of kids thought it was cool
to start your own band...
so, he took up the guitar.
He didn't have anyone to play
with, so he'd storm the stage
while other bands were playing
and steal the spotlight.
He was always doing
wild things like that.
When he was a senior,
he met someone.
Much to his surprise,
she really liked his love songs.
They had embarrassing lyrics,
but she was able
to look past that
and understand the
sincerity behind them.
Sometimes she would enjoy
talking to him so much
that she would lose track of
time and forget that she had
a class to teach.
She was a bit clumsy,
but he didn't mind.
The boy graduated
and was confident
that he could make a
living off of his music.
His classmates laughed at him,
but the teacher who liked
his love songs cheered him on.
"If you keep trying you'll
get your wish someday...
so never give up."
On the day they parted ways,
the boy told her.
"I'm gonna become a star. When I
do... please go out with me."
From that day forward
he made up his mind...
he was going to be a star,
no matter what.
As if it was meant to be,
he made his professional debut
in no time.
He wanted to gloat to all those
who said he couldn't do it...
but they were long since gone.
From then on, he worked
with all his might...
he put everything he had
into his music...
he sang about what
he wanted to sing about
with all the passion
he could muster.
As if he was sobbing...
As if he were vomiting up
the words from his belly,
He sang of all the ugly
things in this world.
And yet, for all the bile
that escaped his lips,
his songs were beautiful.
To him, life was
the ugliest of things...
but it was wonderful...
it was a refreshing.
He had finally found his place.
@One day, he received an
offerúfrom a television station.
@He was going meet his fans.
@But not just any fans...
úfans who had been inspired,
who had been saved
by his music...
@fans who were facing adversity
and turmoil even then.
Those who were sick... those who
had been hurt in accidents...
those who had faced
terrible hardships
because of their families.
Those whose hearts were
so bruised and battered
that they could break down
at any moment...
They were all
in the midst of suffering.
They all used his music
for support
when they had nothing else.
The boy learned that his
songs were not only his own...
they belonged to
his listeners as well.
It was something
he'd never imagined.
Until then, he had been
making music only for himself.
That was the only thing
that mattered.
But things were different now.
He realized that
he had to make music
for hundreds of
thousands of people...
people he had never met before.
Suddenly... he couldn't
write songs anymore.
He saw how big and grand
the world was...
how foolish and
superficial he had been.
@How could he create the
sameúselfish music he made
before?
His agency told him
to take some time off.
And then... half a year later...
@He discovered that someone
he had met on the show
committed a crime.
It was a serious crime...
a terrible one that
couldn't be undone.
@From that point on...
everything started to fall
apart.
The man who had
committed the crime
@said that the boy's songsúhad
helped him keep his life
together in the past...
úthat they had helped him relax.
He said he had been
waiting a long time
to hear new music from the boy.
The boy thought
that it was all his fault.
If only he had kept singing...
if only he hadn't taken away
the man's hope... then maybe
none of this would've happened.
He began to sing again.
He sang of impossible dreams...
high-sounding ideas...
empty idealism.
He didn't know why he was
singing about these things...
he didn't even
understand them, himself.
However, he brushed
aside his doubts
and sang with all his strength,
bellowing meaningless words
at the top of his lungs
in vain hope that he might save
those who had placed
their faith in him.
Before long his songs
strayed away from idealism
and revolution.
His desperate cries for hope
turned to screams of disgust
raised against a corrupt world.
Only despair and disillusionment
could be gained from his music.
His lyrics became incoherent...
full of contradictions.
Even so, he continued to sing.
Desperately... hopelessly,
because he was afraid to stop.
He was afraid of
what might happen
to the people who
depended on him.
@And in his desperation...
@He completely lost his way.
He made a mistake that he
could never take back.
When word of his crime
reached the public,
he was thrown out
like old garbage.
He had hit rock bottom,
with nowhere to go
and nothing to cling to.
Only one thought echoed in
his mind... one final wish...
He wanted to go home.
It's been a while.
Are you still making music?
[Yoshino]: He had left
all of this far behind.
Everything had changed.
If you keep trying you'll
get your wish someday...
so never give up, all right?
[Yoshino]: He realized
that he had lost sight
of something very important.
No matter what turn
his life took,
he should have kept singing.
Even if his songsúcouldn't
save the world...
he could still sing
love songs... for her.
Hey, we're here.
Oh...
Just as well, since that's
the end of the story.
Huh? Oh, right!
@Okazaki. Yeah?
Don't ever lose sight of
what's important to you.
Yessir.
[Nagisa]: I see...,
I support you either way...
so whichever choice you think
is best, is best for me.
Thanks.
Then, assuming you don't
have any objections,
I think I might
take the deal after all.
Great. But why would I object?
They're just taking notice
of your hard work, right?
I guess so...
I know so!,
All right, it's settled!
Yep!,
Bring it on!
I'm surprised, Okazaki,
aren't you going to play?
[uneasy chuckle] I'm, uh...
Oh, I get it, you'd rather
stay with your girlfriend
than play with children, right?
[uncomfortable chuckle]
I don't blame him; You've grown
up to be so pretty, Nagisa!
Thanks! That's nice of you
to say, ma'am!
[Hatted Woman] You look just
like I did when I was your age!
[Brown-haired Woman]:
Really now!
[laughter]
[Tomoya]: We're going to
the beach tomorrow, huh?
Man, it's been a while.
You know, I feel like
your kindness
has really been shining
through lately.
Even though you
were just talking
with a bunch of housewives, you
seemed to be enjoying yourself.
Your smile was really sincere.
[Tomoya]: It's strange, I used
to think being nice to people
was a hassle. That's ironic,
considering how I was always
butting into other
people's problems.
Is being nice
still a hassle now?
Nagisa...
[phone ringing]
Hold on just a sec.
I'll get it for you.
Oh, that's great; Thank you.
Hello, Okazaki residence.
Yes. He's in the other room,
I'll go get him for you.
Hey, Tomoya... it's someone
from Hikarisaka Electric!
Huh?! You don't think I got
the job already, do you?
Hello, Okazaki speaking.
Oh yeah, hi Boss. Can I
help you with something?
Huh? From Kinoshita?
Oh, uh, okay. What's his number?
Okay. Yeah.
Got it. Yeah, thanks for giving
me a call; I appreciate it.
Yes sir, I'll talk to you soon.
Is something wrong?
They said one of my dad's
associates called for me.
I dunno...
[Kinoshita]:
Hello, this is Kinoshita.
Uh, yeah, this is Okazaki.
[Kinoshita]:
Oh! Tomoya?! Bad news!
Huh?
[Kinoshita]Úit, uh... it's
about your father.@He was
arrested by the police.
[gasps]
[Kinoshita]: Apparently, he was
dealing in something illegal.
I just heard the story myself,
so I thought I'd better
contact you, in case
you didn't know.
[Boss]: This is a small town,
so rumors spread quickly.
You know how it is.
Well, anyway... I'm sorry,
but the construction company
is withdrawing their job offer.
Oh, I see...
If it's any consolation, you're
still welcome here, of course.
Nothing has changed.
[Boss]: This just
happened at a bad time...
You'll have other opportunities.
Don't let it get you down.
Nagisa...
Yes?
What do you say we leave
this town? Just you and me.
I should've realized it sooner,
but my father is like
some kind of curse.
He ruins everything for me.
I want to start over
somewhere as far away
from him as possible.
No... you can't do that.
That would be like running away!
This is something
you have to work out!
We don't have to run;
We'll be happy as long as
we have each other... right?
But why does it
have to be here?!;
We can be happy
anywhere, can't we?!
You said we'd be happy as
long as we have each other,
didn't you?
I didn't mean that we have
to stay here for sure;
I'll go anywhere as long
as I'm with you.
But... when we leave this town,
we have to leave with
positive feelings, not because
we're running away.
If we leave with regret, then
we won't be able to come back;
We'll be throwing it away.
This is our town. This is the
place were you and I were born.
It's not something we
should just throw away.
Even if nothing good
ever happened here?
I dunno, a lot of good
things happened to me.
Meeting you is the best thing
that's happened to me
in my entire life.
I don't get it.
What are trying to pull? What
the hell do you want from me?
You think it's fun to screw up
other people's lives,
is that it?
To be honest, I don't even
consider you my father anymore.
Of course... that doesn't seem
to make any difference
to anyone else.
To the rest of the world,
I'm still your son.
Come on! Don't you have
anything to say about this?
Don't you have anything
to say to the son who's life
you've destroyed
over and over again?
What the hell's wrong with you?!
T-Tomoya, stop!
I've had enough. I have
nothing more to say to you;
There's no point.
You can rot in Hell
for all I care!
Tomoya!
[door opening]
[Nagisa]: Tomoya, wait!
Hold on, come back!
Tomoya...
Stop it; What are you doing?!
Tomoya! Tomoya, stop!
Tomoya! Tomoya!
[Nagisa sobbing]
Does... your hand hurt?
Yeah...
It'll hurt when you take a bath.
Probably so...
Nagisa.
Yes?
Will you marry me?,
Yes.
Are you sure?
For as long as we've
been together,
I've known you were
the only one. I mean it.
Even if I'm like this? Even
though... I'm so pathetic?
It's fine.; I'm
pathetic, too. But...
I think if we're together...
we can grow stronger.
Then... you'll stay with me...?
Yes... Of course
I'll stay with you.
[Nagisa]: No matter what
happens. Forever and ever.
It's fine. I'm the one
who should be sorry.
[Sanae]: Don't say that.
None of us feel that way...
not me, not Akio and
certainly not Nagisa.
Wish everyone else
was like that.
Who knows if I'll ever get
a job offer that good again.
It's not fair.
Well, if your life
can change once,
then it can change
again for the better.
[Akio]: Look at that, just like
me, when I was that age.
I was in a hurry to grow up,
even though I didn't know why.
Guess kids never learn, do they?